Q1. What is Statistics?
Ans. Statistics od the science of collecting, organizing and analyzing the data. eg. Height of stdents in the class(175cm, 180cm, 190cm,....)

Q2. Define the different types of statistics and give an example of when each type might be used.
Ans. There are two types of statistics, Descriptive and inferenctial Statistics. 
Descriptive statistics : It consists of organizing And summarizing the data. 
a. Measure of Central tendancy[Mean, Median, Mode]
b. Measure of Desprsion [ variance,  standard deviation]
c. Histogram, bar chart,Pie chart

Infrential Statistics: It consists of using data you have measured to form conclusion. a. Z- test b. T - test , P-value

Q3. What are the different types of data and how do they differ from each other? Provide an example of each type of data.
Ans.  The Two type of data are: a) Quantitaive b) Qualitative
a) Quantitaive: This has a numercial data which is of, i) Discrete Whole number eg. No of bank accounts, no of peigons.
ii) Continous: Any value can be in decimal value, eg. wieght, height, temperature.

b) Qualitaive: There are non numercial. a) Nominal: eg. Gender(M or F), Blood Group b) Ordinal: Rank eg. Good, bad, Satisfactory.

Q4. Categorise the following datasets with respect to quantitative and qualitative data types:
(i) Grading in exam: A+, A, B+, B, C+, C, D, E - Qualitative (Ordinal)
(ii) Colour of mangoes: yellow, green, orange, red - Qualitative (Nominal)
(iii) Height data of a class: [178.9, 179, 179.5, 176, 177.2, 178.3, 175.8,...] : Quantitaive (Continous)
(iv) Number of mangoes exported by a farm: [500, 600, 478, 672, ...]: Quantitaive(Discrete)
Q5. Explain the concept of levels of measurement and give an example of a variable for each level.
Ans. There are four type of measurment:
a) Nominal Scale Data: - Qualitative/categorical varible - eg. Gender, colors, label
b) Ordinal Scale Date: - Ranking and order matter - differnce cannot be measured. 
eg. Qualification(phd, garduation, master.. )
c) Interval Scale Data - Rank and order matters. - Differnce can be measured- Does not have 0 starting value. eg. Temperature.
d) ratio Scale data - Order and rank matter, Differnce and ration are measured - It does hav a '0' starting value  

Q6. Why is it important to understand the level of measurement when analyzing data? Provide an
example to illustrate your answer.

Q7. How nominal data type is different from ordinal data type.
Ans. Nominal Data are category wihich cannot be ranked eg. Gender(male or female), blood-group. 
Whereas, Ordinal data type can be ranked eg. Good, Bad, Satisfied.

Q8. Which type of plot can be used to display data in terms of range?
Ans. Histograms can be used to diplay data in terms of range.

Q9. Describe the difference between descriptive and inferential statistics. Give an example of each
type of statistics and explain how they are used.
Ans. There are two types of statistics, Descriptive and inferenctial Statistics. 
Descriptive statistics : It consists of organizing And summarizing the data. 
a. Measure of Central tendancy[Mean, Median, Mode]
b. Measure of Desprsion [ variance,  standard deviation]
c. Histogram, bar chart,Pie chart

Infrential Statistics: It consists of using data you have measured to form conclusion. a. Z- test b. T - test , P-value

Q10. What are some common measures of central tendency and variability used in statistics? Explain
how each measure can be used to describe a dataset.
Ans. Some measure of central tendancy are , Mean, Median, Mode.Variability refers to how spread scores are in a distribution out 
these is used to describe the data set more  clearly.
